Story telling with data

1. understanding context
2. choose types of commond displays
3. strip clutter
4. how people see
5. telling the story

1. what do people care about:
-something specific communicat to someone specific

Answer:
-who is your audience
-what do you need them to know or do (make recomendation, start conversation)
-how can we show it, what data do we have

Example:
how to price a product. 

-who: head of product
-what: make a recomendation 
-how: shows what average price of competitors over time

2. Different types of visuals:
-create ah ha moment

1-3 numbers:
communicate using numbers dirrectly: write them out

Tables or graphs:
Tables are read: many data elements

graphs are visual: processed faster

Scatterplot: individual elements, outliers
Line graph: time line
slopegraph: two points in time shows slope, rate of change
barchart: categorical data
horizontal text is best!
try horizontal bar chart
preserve axis or label directly ( shape= leave axis) (size value = but labels in bar)
pie chart: when pieces are very big or little is good, when pieces are not that different don't use
Never use 3d! human eye has trouble ascribing value to 3 dementional space

improved pie chart: take away color, lable values to wedges and catecories
used horrizontal barchart is much more clear, use % of total inside bar

3. Strip unneccessary information

Prices has declined for all products has declined
Take away colors for dinnerent years
from time on, use two colors before and after 
use mini line graph whith two pointts to show slope
line graph

clutter:
gestalt principles of visual perception: how is order shown
proximity, things closer together as related
Similarity: same shapes are related
enclosure: background shadding, set a part
closure: circle take away heavy borders shading
continuity: taken out y axis is gone but eye still sees it

connection: line graphs rather than scatter

easy to spot a hawk in a sky full of pigeons
as veriety of birds increase hawk is harder to see
-leveraging contrast

Doorbusters: in selection, convenience, relationship, price comparied to competitors

horizontal bar graph highlight our bar with position labeled #3 #5 compared to competition
separate graphs for categories

get rid of every data marker, use for beginning and end instead, 
take out trailing zeros on y axis
take out y axis and grid lines
get rid of diagonal text
don't want to go between ledgend and data

but data labels next to the lines and same color - eases the eye

4. Focus audience's attention
-light simulation
-iconic memory: super short term fractions of a second
-tuned into preattentive attributes:

